---
layout: post
title: Rise, Stretch, Master - Career Development ... the Nitro Way
---
When you do what I do, then sooner or later you might think that you have seen it all.

Here at Nitro we have something that I have never seen before: we have a company coach (Chief Performance Officer or Chief Productivity Officer or Chief Reduce-Friction Officer or ...).

[Braggy](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mark-bragg-75492010) is an aussie-ex-national-basketball-league coach with a 30 year business career and now he helps us (and me) to go through all the changes and transitions we need go through to take Nitro to the next level.

A couple of month ago I had an interesting discussion with Braggy about how good career development looks like.

And as we all know, in the worst case (especially in software development organisations) it is a very one dimensional discision about becoming a team-lead and then a manager and then ...

Means the perception is that the only way to have a career is to become a people manager.

The next better thing is to make sure that you have a **split pyramid** (with equal pay and equal power and equal influence). This split pyramid implements an individual contributor career path (to become a CTO) and a people manager career path (to become a VP Engineering).

But even then you are limiting yourself. Means all discussions are still about rising to the next *level* and about how to get promoted. Means the discussions are not about what suits you as a talented human being, as a character, as a personality and what you want to do with your live.

And we all know all kinds off models for technical and non-technical career development, but they still feel **limted**. Means they create this wierd up-or-out discussions, where peopele feel that the only way to have a career is to rise/get promoted to the next *level* (whatever that means).

To make these disussions more *open* we (in Nitro) will try to add a third dimension to the career development discussion, where we will try to allow people to have a technical or a non-techncial career, but on top of it they can decide, if they want to **rise** (through the ranks), **stretch** (themselves) or **master** (a craft).

This idea really resonsated with me, because personally I am not very interested in rising through the ranks. Personally I always like to stretch myself and do something that I have not done before. I am a natural multi-purpose weapon. And I like it.

Another good example is my wife (Christina). She is a flight attendant with Lufthansa. Over the years she has developed an impressive and documented track record of turning passengers around (means stressed, tired managers board the plane on a Friday evening in LHR in a bad mood (because the plane is delayed (again)) and leave the plane in a good mood, because my wife helped them to see that the glass is half full)) and has been asked multiple times to become a purser. She made a consience decison to master the craft to be(come) the best flight attendant on the planet.

Sir Ken Robinson talks about making sure that you are in your element. This is where talent, meets purpose, meet passion.
