---
layout: post
title: The american election ... 1 month after
---
The dust has settled. All opinions have been voiced. All articles have been written. Not quite ... here is another one :).

What I have been struggling with is not so much that Donald Trump is President-elect, but what to do next.

And what do to next depend first of all on, if you believe that there is a problem or not and what that problem is. It then comes down to what to do to fix the problem.

If you think that there is no problem, then you can stop reading now.

Still reading?

If you thing that Donald Trump is the problem, then you can stop reading now.

Still reading?

If you think that it is a problem, but it will solve itself in 4 years from now and that we will survive (somehow), then you can stop reading now.

Still reading? Yes?

I think there is a problem, but I do not think that Donald Trump is the problem. He is the victim of a mood, a political culture and political process that produces candidates like him and allows them to get elected.

I think we will "survive" this election, but I am still not happy with it. I am not happy with the way the president gets elected and I am not happy with the outcome. Question is: How would a better process, a better system look like (to produce better results)?

* discuss direct democracy vs. in-direct demogracy
* discuss switzerland, lisbon-treaty (making is slow), brexit
* discuss concentratiing power vs. distributing power (getting something done or not vs. the risk of abuse)

How should/could it look like in the future ...

* we want everybody to vote, but want the people who have the most, the best understanding, the best judgement to have a bigger influence/weighting
* either you get your own weighting up, or you give you vote to somebody else (because you have convinced yourself to trust the judgement of that person)
* can we implement a blockchain to vote for the next president

How is the current preseident elected ...

* TV air-time, (absence of) scandals, marketing (we are not electing a person; we are electing a/the projection of that person),
* Money, lobbyists, NRA, ...
* we are not really electing the chractater (the values, the believes, the (good) judgement, ...)

Let's peal the onion ...

1. the world is a very complex place. And in the next 10 years it will become more complex. Finance, Markets, Money, Technology, ... and 80% of all people in the world do not have access to the right kind of information and even if they did will not be able to comprehend what is happening and why it is happening. 80% of the people are afraid. 80% of the people feel that the loose out. 80% of the people loose out and/or will loose out.
1. we have way to many people on the planet. And not enough resources. And an econimic system that is based on ever-loasting growth (ponzi-scheme).
1. as a result we will all get much more emotional about this (fear, anger, ..) (fight, flight, resignation)
1.
