---
layout: post
title: Good communication is hard ... emails are harder
---
I am getting a lot of emails. Some are good. Some are (really) bad.

Let's first talk about the bad emails. What makes an email bad?

For me it is not the content. Some have some bad news in it or are raising an issue or a problem and ... that is not bad.

For me bad emails are badly written.

The can be badly written, because they are rude or aggressive. Or because they leave me confused and/or surprised.

In general you can say that bad emails lack focus (What do I want/need? What is my goal? Who needs to see this email to get me one step closer to my goal?) and/or emotional intelligence (How will that email make people feel?).

For now lets just talk about the emails that make me feel confused and/or surprised.

Avoiding these emotions is an art, because you try to do the impossible ...

* You want get something done, means you want to move fast (as fast as possible), but not to fast (you do not want to loose people)
* But ... if you communicate with a larger group, you do not want to get all people behind you (only enough to keep going)
* But ... if it is a small group of key stake holders you need to get all of them
* Are you looking for consensus? Or are you just informing people?
* It must be clear what you expect from people. What do you want them to do? Nothing is a possible outcome.
* Some people want to be asked. Some want to be told. Sometimes you want to tell. Sometimes you want to ask.
* How to start the email ...
  * just FYI ... no action for you ...
  * just a heads up ...
  * Huston we have a problem ...
* How to end an email ...
  * Thanks for your help (basically expressing the expectation that the to: list will do as they where told to do; NOT inviting a dicussion)
  * Any questions, let me know (expressing the expectiation that everybody is on board with the proposed course of action and limiting the possible (negative reaction) to an email to you)
  * Agreed? Asking for buy-in/approval/support in a closed way (possible answers are Yes or No).
  * WDYT? Thoughts? Asking for buy-in/approval/support in an open way
* Information vs. consensus seeking vs. support seeking vs. information/learning seeking (as input into your desicsion)
