---
layout: post
title: Productive Friction 2.0 ... on the art of decision making
---
TTTA ...

* The Amazon Leadership Principles
  * 2 Pizza rule
  * Being a Day 1 company
  * Good decison making, fast desicion making
  * Decide with 70% of information
  * Disagree and commit

* Productive Friction 2.0
  * How to make it better?
  * How to make it faster?

* Disagree and commit
  * Why is it so difficult?

* Radical Cantor
  * You need to earn the right/capability first?
  * You need to be seen as putting the misson first
  * You need to be seen as having the right intentions
  * This will give you the right to give feedback
  * People need to trust you that your intentions are good

<hr>

One of the pillars of my management philosophy is diversity.

I believe that diverse teams are more innovative, more productive, more stable and ultimately more successful.

Diversity comes in a lot of flavours and dimensions: Gender (male/female), cultural/geographical (US/Europe/Asia), education (degree in english/degree in computer science), personalities (extroverts/introverts), ...

Why is diversity so valuable? Because it creates a better decision making process/environment. It creates better descisions. What is very important for me and has served me well is to be wrong or to be proven wrong by the team/my team.

Having discussions and disagree on issues is important and makes the team stronger and the decisions better (and produces long-term better results; you are not optimizing for one decsion to be right; you are optimizinhg for the decision making process to be the best it can be).

I call this Productive Friction.

But creating an environment that cherrishes diversity and Productive Friction can also be challenging. Mainly because sometimes feelings and egos can get hurt and if you always look for a/the happy ending (consenus) you might be slow (too slow).

And you can be slow in two ways: First you can be slow, because you feel uncomfortable to move forward, because you think that you have not enough information. Second you can be slow, because you try to create consensus (always, with everybody, at 100%).

Instead what you need to get to is a group of people that feels comfortable to decide something in the precence of uncertainty/incomplete information (as Jeff Bezos likes to say: If you wait until you have 90% of the information it is probably too late).

And you also want to create an environment where it is ok to not have 100% consensus. You want to create an environment of disagree and commit.

But for the reasons outlined above creating such an environment is difficult. If your opinion is not/never valued (or at least it might feel that way) you might start to doubt yourself and might start to ask yourself: What am I doing here? The answer is learning. You learn more when you are wrong, then when you are right.

But to overcome the negative feedback loop, you need to have something to hold on to. And that is something or somebody.
