---
layout: post
title: Leadership at Amazon ... Productive Friction 2.0
---
The other day I was reading the letter that Jeff Bezo's is writing to shareholders every year.

The obsession with fast, good decison making was and is resonating with me.

I like fast decison making processes that produce good decisions. And I like cultures and behaviours that foster environments that produce these fast, good descisions.

In the case of Amazon they have developed a set of leadership principles and behaviours (like the famous 2 pizza rule) to protect their agility and velocity, while they are scaling (and to make sure they stay a Day 1 company).

The two that stand out to me is the ambition to decide with 70% of the information (because if you wait until you have 90% of the information you are probably too late and too slow) and the ability to **disagree and commit**.

Especially the last one is interesting.

I am using Productive Friction and Diversity to create environments that are innovative. But Productive Friction and Diversity are also key incredience into good decsion making. And it can slow you down. Means the question becomes: Can have the cake and eat it too? Can you have good decisions and fast descisons?

I think a culture of *disagree and commit* can give you that.

But it is not easy to build. From my point of view the main problem is that you need to make sure poeple put the mission before the ego. Normally a lot of self-worth comes out of your ability to have good ideas, good judgement, good results. If you are wrong or if you are not getting it your way, you might start to feel worthless.

This is why (from my point of view) *disagree and commit* needs **the power of why**. You need to identify yourself with something bigger than yourself (something/someone) to overcome the constant personal rejection.
