---
layout: post
title: 17 reasons to be a manager
---
A couple of weeks ago Crisi was in Dublin.

I attended her meetup talk on testing in production. Hot topic!!!

I personally feel/think that you should always and only test in production. That should be the default. But ... that is probably a topic for a different blog post.

In that week she also attended one of the Engineering Management Meetups at Intercom (if you have never been to one of them ... highly recommended!!!).

And as a result she published a nice blog post with 17 reasons why NOT to be a manager (good read!!!).

At the same time I was thinking to myself that I have (at least) 17 reasons why I want to be a manager.

And here it goes ...

1. You love what you do.

1. You enjoy building/supporting people (who will then build amazing systems).

1. You get to help/support people, when they are in (real) trouble.

1. You get to be a multiplier and a catalyst.

1. You get to create behavior.

1. You get to scratch your itch (the itch that you care more about poeple and their well-being than ...).

1. You get to tell stories.

I think all good managers or more specifically all good leaders are good story-tellers.

And let me be clear (because in Software Engineering being branded as a story-teller, can be seen as something negative), I am not talking about poeple who talk (to much) just to hear their own voice and are good at making promises and not good at keeping them and ... (we have all seen this kind of story-teller).

When I am talking about a story-teller, I am talking about somebody you can listen and listens a lot and will then sum up the situation, will put it into perspective with respect to why we are doing what we do and will leave you with a feeling that whatever the problem is, it might be difficult to solve, but that you are not alone and that the problem is very valuable to solve.

You will understand, why what you do matters.

1. You are like to complement, not compete.

1. You like to be(come) the missing puzzle piece, the missing incredient.
