---
layout: post
title: TSAONGAF - A review
---
Find problems that you want to solve and can solve.

Give way to feeling bad. Not about yourself. But something. Being (always) positive is a drug that will prevent you from asking questions that are difficult, uncomfortable and painful.

Why do I (start to) feel like a fake, fraud, failure? Because I pretend(ed) to be something that I am not? An engineer? A manager? A father? A husband? A friend? On one hand I think I am all of this. On the other hand I think I am none of it. At least not ... REALLY (like in ... all-in). Am I the director of my life. Or a victim of my live/the circumstances? I (start to) feel that I am a quitter. That I (always) give up (to early) when it gets rough/tough. My career was to run away from my current job (because I was afraid to fail and/or unable (to do what it takes) to succeed.

I am starting to wonder what my legacy is (going to be). Who or what will miss me when I am gone. What is it that I am leaving behind. A couple of people that I helped to have a career? Alexandros? My marriage? I do not think/feel that this is this great. Who will come to my funeral? Have I made the most of it?

In the next 5 years I want to ...

- reinvent myself as a rentner
- let go on the old Roland. Always positive. Successful. High salary. Important title/role. Father.
- find new ways to be useful. To the company. To the industry. To Alexandros. To friends.
- find out why (more and more) I am angry (most of the time).
- work 30 hours/week
- work out/hike a lot
- make EUR 150K year
- talk at conferences/teach/write
- find young people that want and can (and help them to find and develop their superpower (and do good with it))
- spend time with friends and family (Thomas, KlausZ, Andreas, ..., Mama, Papa, ..., Adrian, Moritz, Karl, SOS, AOS, ..., Justin, ...)
- do NOT spend time with Alexandros and Christina. Because they make me feel like a failure. I am not proud about them. I think they are failures. Which makes me think/feel I am a failure. They are weak and dumb. They don't want and they can't. But ... maybe I think that they do not want/can't, because I feel/fear that I do not have a growth mindset either.

(uncomfortable) thinks to do to grow (and reinvent myself as an engineer) ...

What are my (new) metrics for a good life/per week ...

- I learned something
- I worked out (once)
- I hiked (once)
- I helped somebody
- I called a friend
- I visited a friend

---

You own the reaction to what happens to you. How you react is your responsibility.

Giveing a fuck about everything means giving a fuck about nothing.

Know your 5 fucks. Know your 5 golf balls.

Life is problem solving. Live is good judgement. Life is owning the cards that you got dealt and get the most out of them. Yes is sucks that you have bad genes; now what?

Fixed mindset - sense of entitlement. Growth mindset - sense of responsibility/ownership (for your life and the future).
